Hello, and welcome to the
BC First Nations Justice Council.
My name is [Presenter Name], and I'm here
to walk you through everything you need
to get started with your technology at BCFNJC.
In this video, we'll cover your laptop setup,
how to care for and secure your device,
how to reach IT support, and a guided tour
of the Microsoft 365 tools
you'll use every day.
Whether you're brand new to Microsoft 365 or just
need to get familiar with how we do things here,
this video is your guide. Let's get started.
NOTE Scene 02 — Hardware Overview
Let's start with your laptop.
You'll notice there's a small physical privacy
shutter on your webcam.
Get in the habit of sliding it closed whenever
you're not on a video call.
It's a simple way to protect your privacy.
For best performance, keep your laptop
plugged in when you're at your desk.
And whenever possible, connect
using an Ethernet cable.
Wired connections are faster and more stable
than Wi-Fi — especially for video calls
and large file transfers.
Finally — please reboot your laptop
at least once every few days.
This keeps everything running smoothly and makes
sure important security updates get installed.
NOTE Scene 03 — Care & Security
Taking good care of your device also means
taking care of the people we serve.
When you're traveling with your laptop,
keep it in a secure bag
and never leave it unattended in a car
or public space.
If your device is ever lost, stolen, or damaged —
even a cracked screen —
please notify IT immediately.
The faster we know, the faster we can protect
your account and our organization's data.
Protecting our clients' information is something
we all take seriously here.
Please be thoughtful about where you use your
laptop and who can see your screen.
For personal use, please keep it to a minimum
and stay within our Acceptable Use Policy,
which you can find on the Intranet.
If you have travel coming up that might involve
exceptions to standard policy, reach out to IT
in advance — we're happy to help.
NOTE Scene 04 — IT Support
If you ever run into a technical issue,
we make it easy to get help.
Your first stop should be the Intranet — it has
answers to the most common questions,
along with IT forms and policies.
If you need direct support, you can email us
at support@sfy.ca,
or call 1-877-378-6730.
We're here Monday through Friday and we'll
get back to you as quickly as possible.
Don't hesitate to reach out —
that's what we're here for.
NOTE Scene 05 — Hardware & Printers
If you ever need additional hardware —
a monitor, a keyboard, a headset —
start by talking to your manager.
They'll work with IT to make sure
you have what you need.
Your laptop comes with antivirus and endpoint
protection software already installed.
You don't need to do anything to set that up —
it's running in the background keeping you safe.
For printers: once you're connected to the staff
network, reach out to SFY to have a printer
deployed to your device.
It typically appears in your printer list
within 10 to 15 minutes. Easy.
NOTE Scene 06 — Microsoft Edge & Intranet
Microsoft Edge is the browser we use at BCFNJC.
Once you sign in with your Microsoft 365 account,
your bookmarks, passwords, and browser settings
will sync automatically across any device you use.
Your first stop online should be the Intranet.
It's your central hub for everything BCFNJC —
staff directories, organizational resources,
IT forms, and our Acceptable Use Policy.
Bookmark it now so it's always one click away.
You'll also have access to BCFNJC's SharePoint
environment, where shared documents
and resources are stored.
NOTE Scene 07 — OneDrive & File Management
OneDrive is where your files live — and it's
working for you automatically in the background.
Your Desktop, Documents, and Pictures folders
are all backed up to OneDrive.
So if anything happens to your laptop,
your files are safe in the cloud.
You'll see a small green checkmark icon next to
files and folders in File Explorer —
that means they're synced and backed up.
If you have questions about where to store
specific records or documents,
reach out to records@bcfnjc.com.
And when you need to access or share
organizational files with colleagues,
the BCFNJC SharePoint shared library
is where you'll find them.
NOTE Scene 08 — Outlook Email
Outlook is your email and calendar home base.
When you first open it, take a few minutes
to explore the address book.
You'll find all BCFNJC staff listed there, along
with distribution lists for teams and departments —
which makes it easy to send messages
to the right group of people.
To confirm your email is set up correctly,
send a quick test email.
Your Outlook calendar is where you'll schedule
meetings, accept meeting invites,
and check colleagues' availability.
Make sure to subscribe to the All Staff calendar —
it's listed in the calendar sidebar —
so you stay informed about organization-wide
events and closures.
NOTE Scene 09 — Microsoft Teams
Microsoft Teams is where the day-to-day
collaboration happens at BCFNJC.
Once you've signed in, go to your settings
and enable auto-launch.
That way, Teams will start automatically every
time you log into your computer,
and you'll never miss a message or meeting.
Next, head into your notification settings and
make sure you have notifications turned on
for the All Staff team.
This keeps you connected with
organization-wide updates.
Teams is also your tool for video and audio
meetings, screen sharing, and sharing files
within your team channels.
NOTE Scene 10 — Microsoft Word & Templates
When you create a document at BCFNJC, always
start with one of our organizational templates.
Open Microsoft Word, go to File, then New,
and you'll see a section for BCFNJC templates.
These are pre-formatted with our branding,
fonts, and layouts.
Our default font is Montserrat. Please use it
in all documents you create.
When it comes to saving: always save
your files to OneDrive.
When you do, AutoSave activates automatically —
which means Word is saving your work
every few seconds as you type.
Before you edit any template, save a personal
copy first so the original stays intact
for everyone else.
NOTE Scene 11 — Adobe Acrobat Pro
For working with PDFs, you have Adobe
Acrobat Pro installed on your device.
You can use it to view, edit, annotate, and
digitally sign PDF documents —
which comes up regularly for contracts,
forms, and official correspondence.
If you're new to Acrobat, don't worry — there
are resources on the Intranet to help you.
And of course, IT is always here
if you have questions.
NOTE Scene 12 — Closing
And that's your IT onboarding overview.
You've covered a lot of ground today — from
your hardware setup to Microsoft 365,
file management, and collaboration tools.
If you missed anything or want to revisit a
section, this video is available anytime
on the BCFNJC SharePoint intranet.
Remember — your Intranet is your first stop
for answers. And our IT team
at support@sfy.ca or 1-877-378-6730
is always here when you need us.
Welcome to BCFNJC. We're really glad you're
here, and we look forward to working with you.